# documentation
### [🌸final project🌸](https://editor.p5js.org/insiyam/sketches/s6KDpnuwO)

### process :
  since i couldn't be as creative with generative text as my fonts weren't working, i decided to create a data visualization work based off of our in-class table example. i had selected the data for cherry blossom searches on google trends and i wanted to visualize this data in a more unique way than my [original in-class work](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-20%20231523.png). i wanted to create a scene isnpired by cherry blossom parks like [this](https://media.istockphoto.com/photos/cherry-blossom-picture-id164484408?s=170667a) with the size of the blossoms indicating how much they were searched in that time. 

##### stage 1 : basic mechanics
this was an effort that was very tough in the beginning but lightened as i kept going. after browsing on the internet for ways to create my idea, i ended up following a [tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hokTcLVtZs8) which was confusing at first because his system looks a lot different compared to mine but after rewatching it a couple of times i was able to get a hang of it and ended up with an [initial sketch](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234456.png) of scattered of ellipses that were proportional to the number of searches. however, i ran into an issue which was that the google trends data was organized by weeks and not months so it would be hard to create labels and actually visualize the data. this process of manipulating the data was very much based on trial and error and i made multiple copies of the initial csv file to achieve my desired result. i started by adding an extra column titled "Month" and converting all the dates into their corresponding months and adding ```text(month, x, y);``` to make a label. however this created a messy [result](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234537.png) so i actually got new data from google trends again for only one year and tried messing around with the r vale to only show the one circle for every month but it still wasnt my desired [effect](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234544.png). i ended up creating a completely [new excel sheet](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234711.png) where i added all the months and the totals of each month based on the 2021 data and i used this to create a new [sketch](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234550.png) before tweaking some of the details and creating my final [base mechanics](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234558.png) for this project.

##### stage 2 : (failed) integration of class/objects
this part of my vision was to create a class of flowers made from other shapes and replace the initial ellipse with so that it could visually represent the cherry blossoms better. spolier alert: it was a complete failure. but i'm still going to talk about it here because i would like to get some feedback on if it is possible and where i went wrong. anyways, so i started a new [sketch](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234602.png) where i tried to create a flower-esque shape with all the arguments being based around variables so it could proportionally grow or shrink like the ellipses. although i was relatively happy with my object i realized a problem occured when the x and y values were too high or low. i thought subtracting like ```this.y-this.y/30``` would be enough but i was very mistaken. i tried to make a ['testing ground'](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234625.png) by placing a flower in each 'quadrant' and adjusting the measurements which was a very tedious process but provided some good [results](https://github.com/insiyam/intro-to-im/blob/first/media/data%20visualization/Screenshot%202022-02-21%20234629.png). im sure there is a more mathematically smarter and simpler way to solve this problem but i just carried on and tried to integrate it into my base mechanics. this was a coplete failure as i couldnt figure out how to initialze the object in my for loop without ```function draw()``` which i couldnt use because the for loop itself was in ```function setup()```. the shape just wouldnt show up at all, only the month labels. i couldnt figure out a way past this conundrum and realzied that the hw prompt didnt require a class and it was just something you mentioned in class we could do so although i am sure there's a way around this i deicided to give up on this strategy.

##### stage 2 reprise : other (failed) attempts
since i couldnt use class i decided to try other methods to create my flower shapes. i tried to create a flower function based on the class but it still didnt work because the x,y,z position and size of the shape was relaint on the table and it kept giving me an error saying that it was expecting an argument but instead recieved a string. i also tried to move my variables outside of the for loop but that also didnt help and just broke my code for some reason. my next strategy was to try creating a base shape directly into the for loop (like an ellipse) and i remembered how in class we used a vertex so i tried that. i found the old link for the bezier vertex [playground] sent in one of the earlier classes and used bezier vertexes to create a [flower] but i was also not able to 'variablize' this in a way that it smoothly grew/shrunk like an ellipse. i also tried to use ```scale()``` feature but i couldnt figure out how to adjust the my z value to become a factor of the scale rather than the absolute value of the size that the shape had to be. sadly, at this point i was all out of ideas and hope so i decided to give up on my dreams and just continue on with the ellipses.

##### stage 3 : aestheticization
this last stage was the most familar to me as it has become a habit for all my projects. i adjusted the colour of the ellipses, alligned dthe text, added a background, grass etc. to create visual appeal. i also experimented with lines and stroke for the first time to create the branches as this is the only piece ive made this semester that does not include ```noStroke()```. the helpful mouse trick came in handy again so i could pin point the exact coordinates for all the branches. with this, i was finally done and after some organizational commenting, my project was complete.

### reflection :
overall, i am mildly pleased with my results. i dont think its obvious at first glance that it represents cherry blossoms which was my initial goal but i do think its a good visual supplement to the data and makes it easier to compare each month's search result. i do wish i knew a way to control the placement of each circle so they werent able to overlap as much and im sure there is a function out there (maybe dist?) that can achieve this goal but i do think the randomness of it kind of adds to the generative/design aspect of it. im happy that i tried new things like working with stroke and also the bezier curve (even though it didnt make it into the final) to get some more practice and expermientation in general.

to follow up on a goal from last week, i did more research on markdown as well and i do think i have improved drastically in my documentation style and its a lot better organized and more comprehensive now. i want to continue improving this skill and make even nicer documentations, especially focusing on adding embedded images and formatting them properly. i also want troubleshoot my text font problem asap so i dont have too much trouble with my midterm project especially if i make it wordle inspired.
