## proposal
my idea is to create a system to figure out when to water plants. i'm a big plant lover and i usually use an excel sheet where i keep track of all my plants and all their different needs, especially how often they need water. however, it can be very tedious to keep track of when i watered every plant and counting days can be unreliable so i want to create a system to help me with this. i looked on the im equipment website and there's a soil moisture detector so i will use this for my project. roughly, my idea is to use the arduino to connect this detector to p5js where i will use data visualization to figure out if the plants needs to be watered/ how much water it needs. in p5js you will be able to select what type of plant and it will hold the data of how much water this plant needs to thrive etc and this will be charted against the current moisture level of the plant once you connect the arduino to the soil. the type of data that the moisture detector collects will afect the logistics os the p5 code but i want to create a visualization of the plants needs.

## reflection
im not sure if this is the best idea because even though i think it is very cool i fear that it might not be "in conversation" like in those readings we did in class. the only action the person does is connect the arduino to the plant and acting accordingly which fulfills the listening and speaking part but i dont know if it truly fulfills the thinking aspect. i think i will have to develop this idea more if i settle completely on it.
